Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Rockingham County VA SO
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Oct 05 2026

Overview

Rockingham County VA SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence using license plate cameras (photos only / no videos) in public places without compromising on individual privacy. Rockingham County VA SO utilizes retroactive license plate search and vehicle descriptors to help solve crimes in our community after they have occurred. Additionally, Rockingham County VA SO utilizes real time alerting of "hotlist" vehicles to locate missing, wanted, and endangered persons that are entered into the Virginia State Police VCIN System (AMBER alerts, SENIOR alerts, etc.) In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

4

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

4

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

134,573

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

7

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

8

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Rockingham County VA SO data.

Amherst County VA SO
Bluefield VA PD
Chesapeake VA PD
Clarksville VA PD
Fairfax County VA PD
Franklin County VA SO
Front Royal VA PD
Hanover County VA SO
Herndon VA PD
Hopewell VA PD
King George County VA SO
Leesburg VA PD
Mathews County VA SO
Middlesex County SO VA
New Kent County VA SO
Powhatan County VA SO
Pulaski VA PD
Roanoke VA PD
Rockbridge County VA SO
Smithfield VA PD
Southampton VA SO
Spotsylvania County VA SO
Strasburg VA PD
Suffolk VA PD
Woodstock VA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicle Descriptors

What's NOT Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race, Cell Phone Data, Wireless Technology

Acceptable Use Policy

License plate images are used for law enforcement purposes only and access is strictly governed by the Code of Virginia. All images are owned by Rockingham County VA SO and are never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid law enforcement reason and system access logs are stored.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety