Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Rome GA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Sep 09 2026

Overview

The Rome Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. The department utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they have occurred. Additionally, the Rome Police Department utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
In the Georgia News
WINDER, GA
6/24/2026

OTHER

Flock LPR Helps Deputies Arrest Bomb Threat Suspect in Minutes
LPR
Read full story
HIRAM, GA
6/23/2026

HOMICIDE / MURDER

Flock LPR Helps Identify Four Suspects in Fatal Georgia Shooting
LPR
Read full story
THOMASTON, GA
6/21/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Assists Same-Day Stolen Vehicle Recovery in Thomaston, GA
LPR
Read full story
IVEY, GA
6/15/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Helps Recover Stolen F-350 and $250K in Property in Georgia
LPR
Read full story
MACON, GA
6/10/2026

FUGITIVE / WARRANT APPREHENSION

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Capture of Wanted Man in Macon, GA
LPR
Read full story
Data & Usage Summary
Camera Alert Activity

Camera alerts by source and topic over the last 30 days.

16,138 alerts
Georgia DOR - Expired
12,777
Georgia DOR - Suspended
2,619
NCIC - Sex Offender
639
NCIC - Warrants
38
NCIC - Protection Order
19
NCIC - Missing Person
17
NCIC - Stolen Vehicle
11
NCIC - Stolen Plate
10
NCIC - Extreme Risk Protection Order
6
NCIC - CPIC Data Records
2

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

32

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

32

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

140

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, Georgia DOR, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

40,653
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Missing/Endangered Person/Runaway
Larceny/Theft Offenses
Hit and Run/Car Accident
Obstructing the Police (Fleeing/Eluding)
Drugs/Narcotics
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License plates, vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, people, gender, race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is strictly used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the Rome Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and all access data is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety