Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Corcoran MN PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

Corcoran MN PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Corcoran MN PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Corcoran MN PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

9

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

174,069

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

17

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, MN BCA

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

1,627

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Corcoran MN PD data.

Dayton MN PD
Elk River MN PD
Fridley MN PD
Hopkins MN PD
Medina MN PD
Plymouth MN PD
West Hennepin MN Public Safety Department
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Corcoran MN PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety