Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Colonial Beach VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

Colonial Beach VA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Colonial Beach VA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Colonial Beach VA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

4

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

27,570

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

12

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

7
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Colonial Beach VA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

Additional Information

Automated License Plate Readers (ALPRs)
427.1 VERSION
Review Date Effective Date Approving Authority Revised Date
12/1/23 05/11/2023 Les J. Parsons, Chief of

Police

12/9/24

427.2 PURPOSE AND SCOPE
The purpose of this policy is to provide guidance for the capture, storage and use of digital data
obtained through the use of Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology.
427.3 POLICY
The policy of the Colonial Beach Police Department is to utilize ALPR technology to capture and
store digital license plate data and images while recognizing the established privacy rights of the
public.
All data and images gathered by the ALPR are for the official use of this department. Because
such data may contain confidential information, it is not open to public review.
427.4 ADMINISTRATION
The ALPR technology, also known as License Plate Recognition (LPR), allows for the automated
detection of license plates. It is used by the Colonial Beach Police Department to convert data
associated with vehicle license plates for official law enforcement purposes, including identifying
stolen or wanted vehicles, stolen license plates and missing persons. It may also be used to
gather information related to active warrants, homeland security, electronic surveillance, suspect
interdiction and stolen property recovery.
All installation and maintenance of ALPR equipment, as well as ALPR data retention and access,
shall be managed by the Patrol Operations Commander. The Patrol Operations Commander will
assign members under his/her command to administer the day-to-day operation of the ALPR
equipment and data.
427.5 OPERATIONS
Use of an ALPR is restricted to the purposes outlined below. Department members shall not use,
or allow others to use, the equipment or database records for any unauthorized purpose.
(a) An ALPR shall only be used for official law enforcement business.
(b) An ALPR may be used in conjunction with any routine patrol operation or criminal
investigation. Reasonable suspicion or probable cause is not required before using
an ALPR.
(c) While an ALPR may be used to canvass license plates around any crime scene,
particular consideration should be given to using ALPR-equipped vehicles to canvass
areas around homicides, shootings and other major incidents. Partial license plates
reported during major crimes should be entered into the ALPR system in an attempt
to identify suspect vehicles.
(d) No member of this department shall operate ALPR equipment or access ALPR data
without first completing department-approved training.
(e) No ALPR operator may access confidential department, state or federal data unless
authorized to do so.
(f) If practicable, the officer should verify an ALPR response through the appropriate
official law enforcement database before taking enforcement action that is based
solely on an ALPR alert.

427.6 DATA COLLECTION AND RETENTION
The Patrol Operations Commander is responsible for ensuring systems and processes are in
place for the proper collection and retention of ALPR data. Data will be transferred from vehicles
to the designated storage in accordance with department procedures.
All stored ALPR data should be retained in accordance with the established records retention
schedule. Thereafter, ALPR data should be purged unless it has become, or it is reasonable to
believe it will become, evidence in a criminal or civil action or is subject to a discovery request
or other lawful action to produce records. In those circumstances, the applicable data should be
downloaded onto portable media and booked into evidence.
427.7 ACCOUNTABILITY
All data will be closely safeguarded and protected by both procedural and technological means.
The Colonial Beach Police Department will observe the following safeguards regarding access
to and use of stored data:
(a) All ALPR data downloaded to the mobile workstation and in storage shall be accessible
only through a login/password-protected system capable of documenting all access
of information by name, date and time.
(b) Members approved to access ALPR data under these guidelines are permitted to
access the data for legitimate law enforcement purposes only, such as when the data
relate to a specific criminal investigation or department-related civil or administrative
action.
(c) ALPR system audits should be conducted on a regular basis.
427.8 RELEASING ALPR DATA
The ALPR data may be shared only with other law enforcement or prosecutorial agencies
for official law enforcement purposes or as otherwise permitted by law, using the following
procedures: (a) The agency makes a written request for the ALPR data that includes:
1. The name of the agency.
2. The name of the person requesting.
3. The intended purpose of obtaining the information.
(b) The request is reviewed by the Patrol Operations Commander.
(c) The approved request is retained on file.
Requests for ALPR data by non-law enforcement or non-prosecutorial agencies will be processed
as provided in the Records Maintenance and Release Policy.

Provided by Flock Safety