Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Safford AZ PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Oct 05 2026

Overview

Safford AZ PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Safford AZ PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Safford AZ PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Homicide Suspect

With assistance from flock cameras, a wanted homicide suspect was detected passing through the area in 2024. Officers from several agencies worked together and were able to stop the suspect ending in an officer-involved shooting in another jurisdiction. Based on the obtained information from the flock cameras agencies had time to create a tactical plan and bring the situation to a resolution where no members of the public or law enforcement were injured.

Sex Offender

Child molestation case.  The suspect vehicle was provided and entered into the flock system.  The vehicle was seen leaving town soon after the crime was discovered.  An alert was placed through the system to notify officers if it returned.  Later in the day officers were alerted it was coming back into town.  A stop was made and the suspect was taken into custody without incident.

Burglary/Stolen Vehicle

In July of 2026 two male suspects were arrested on multiple felony charges relating the burglary of a rental property, stolen vehicle, unlawful flight from law enforcement, and misconduct involving weapons. This incident stemmed from a burglary of a short-term vacation rental home where the vehicle of the tenant was stolen along with her personal belongings inside the residence. The vehicle was entered into Flock system as stolen in the morning. Later in the day the vehicle was located by flock cameras in Thatcher area and pursuit was initiated by other agencies. Ultimately the suspects crashed the vehicle and fled on foot before being taken into custody. Both have prior felony charges as well.

Silver Alerts

82 year old man with dementia located safely in Thatcher 2 days after leaving Phoenix.
77 year old man with dementia missing from Gilbert located safely in the area.

In the Arizona News
MESA, AZ
5/1/2026

ASSAULT / AGGRAVATED ASSAULT

Flock LPR Helps Mesa Police Arrest Shooting Suspect in One Day
LPR
Read full story
PAGE, AZ
4/12/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Stolen Vehicle Recovery and Felony DUI Arrest in Page, AZ
LPR
Read full story
GLENDALE, AZ
4/4/2026

VANDALISM / PROPERTY CRIME

Flock LPR Helps Arizona Detectives Identify Slingshot Vandalism Suspects
LPR
Read full story
PAGE, AZ
2/28/2026

FUGITIVE / WARRANT APPREHENSION

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Arrest of Two Fugitives, Rescue of Three Children
LPR
Read full story
CASA GRANDE, AZ
2/16/2026

OTHER

Flock LPR Assists in Locating Shooting Suspect Vehicle in Casa Grande
LPR
Read full story
Data & Usage Summary
Camera Alert Activity

Camera alerts by source and topic over the last 30 days.

1 alert
NCIC - Gang or Suspected Terrorist
1

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

48,616

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

8

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

243
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Disorderly Conduct/Disturbance
Weapons Offense (Guns/Shots Fired)
Hit and Run/Car Accident
Drugs/Narcotics

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Safford AZ PD data.

Graham County AZ SO
Thatcher AZ PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Safford AZ PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

More Info

Additional Flock Safety Information

For further information on Flock Safety policies and other items, please refer to the links below:

https://www.flocksafety.com/legal/privacy-policy
https://www.flocksafety.com/legal/lpr-policy
https://www.flocksafety.com/privacy-ethics
https://www.flocksafety.com/trust-center
https://www.flocksafety.com/legal
https://www.flocksafety.com/blog
https://security.flocksafety.com

Provided by Flock Safety