Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Arlington PD (WA)
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Jun 26 2026

OVERVIEW

The Arlington Police Department (APD) uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Arlington Police Department utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Arlington Police Department utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to locate missing endangered children/adults, and to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data used by the Arlington Police Department is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Traffic enforcement, immigration enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion) or personal use.

System Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely and only by authorized law enforcement personnel.

Flock data is only retained for 30 days. However, an audit trail of the users who accessed the system is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

22

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

291,767

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

288

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

30
ADDITIONAL INFO

APD Policy Manual: Automated License Plate Readers (Section 708)

https://www.arlingtonwa.gov/DocumentCenter/View/8439/RELEASE_20230102_T130636_Arlington_PD_Policy_Manual-1

Provided by Flock Safety