Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock.com
Sultan WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Jul 31 2026

Overview

Sultan WA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Sultan WA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Sultan WA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

6

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

138,783

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

19

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Sultan WA PD data.

Arlington PD (WA)
Everett (WA) Police Department
Granite Falls WA PD
Lake Stevens WA PD
Lynnwood WA PD [Inactive]
Marysville WA PD
Mill Creek WA PD
Monroe WA PD
Mountlake Terrace WA PD
Mukilteo WA PD
Snohomish County WA 911
Snohomish County WA SO
Snohomish WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Sultan WA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Provided by Flock Safety