Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Bridgewater VA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Aug 21 2026

Overview

Bridgewater PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Bridgewater PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Bridgewater PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

Recent Success Stories

- BPD had a rash of catalytic converters stolen in town as well around the surrounding areas. Through the work of our police department and the Flock service, we were able to identify the vehicle and track down the suspect through the cameras, ultimately leading to an arrest, multiple charges in 6 jurisdictions, and seizing $26,000 in cash from the offender from stolen catalytic sales.

- Another recent crime involved a check fraud at a local bank; using the Flock service we were able to identify the vehicle from the little information that was provided from the teller and identify the vehicle owner and suspect within 20 minutes of the incident.

-August 2023 Success Story: An expensive motorcycle helmet was stolen from outside of the 7-11 convenience store in Bridgewater. The stores cameras were only able to capture part of the truck, giving us the color and body style. Using our Flock camera system, we were able to observe a truck matching the color and body style leaving the town on Dinkel Avenue. Using the license plate from the Flock footage, we were able to identify the vehicle’s owner. Officers went to the suspects home retrieved the helmet. This case was solved, and the property was returned to its rightful owner.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

5

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

62,627

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, NCIC - VSP

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

14
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Bridgewater PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

External Organizations with Access

We currently do share data with other law enforcement agencies and for a complete list please contact our department.

Provided by Flock Safety