Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Graham NC PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Oct 06 2026

Overview

Graham,NC PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. Graham, NC PD uses retroactive searches to solve crimes after they occur. Additionally, Graham, NC PD utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. To ensure proper use and guardrails are in place, they have made the policies and usage statistics below available to the public.

Community Impact
In the North Carolina News
LINCOLNTON, NC
5/17/2026

RETAIL THEFT / SHOPLIFTING

Flock LPR Helps Identify Two Larceny Suspects in Lincolnton, NC
VIDEO
Read full story
ROCKINGHAM, NC
5/15/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Stolen Motorcycle Recovery in Rockingham, NC
LPR
Read full story
GASTONIA, NC
5/10/2026

STOLEN VEHICLE RECOVERY

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Two Arrests After Stolen Motorcycle Chase in Gastonia
LPR
Read full story
HUNTERSVILLE, NC
5/1/2026

HIT-AND-RUN

Flock LPR Alert Leads to Arrest After Stolen Vehicle Pursuit in Huntersville
LPR
Read full story
BURLINGTON, NC
4/22/2026

MISSING PERSON

Flock LPR Helps Locate Missing Person Across State Lines in NC
LPR
Read full story
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

7 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

6

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

6

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

35

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

308
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Larceny/Theft Offenses
Motor Vehicle Theft/Stolen
Burglary/Breaking & Entering
Stolen Property Offenses
Hit and Run/Car Accident
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Graham NC PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access shall be based upon a valid law enforcement purpose, and all officer searches and related system activity shall be retained indefinitely.
Each officer granted access to the system shall complete required training on its proper use and review the agency’s ALPR policy governing authorized access and system usage.
Once access has been granted, officers shall access the system using multi-factor authentication (MFA) to help prevent unauthorized access.

Hotlist Policy

No enforcement action is authorized unless the underlying hotlist trigger has been verified as active by the on-duty supervisor or the officer taking the enforcement action. Verification may be conducted through DCI, NCIC, or by contacting the agency that entered the hotlist record.
All agency hotlist entries shall be completed by the on-duty supervisor to ensure that all applicable requirements and guidelines have been satisfied prior to entry.
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety