Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Lowell MA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Mon Sep 21 2026

Overview

The Lowell Police Department uses ALPR technology to support public safety efforts while maintaining a focus on individual privacy. ALPR technology can assist with both investigating incidents after they occur and providing real-time alerts related to vehicles of interest. To promote transparency, the Lowell Police Department provides this page with information about our use of ALPR technology, applicable policies, and other relevant resources.

Community Impact
Featured Success Stories

September 2026

In the latter weeks of August 2026, detectives began to follow up on a person causing repeated damage to multiple vehicles at a residence, causing over $10,000 worth of damage and putting 4 vehicles out of commission. A FLOCK custom alert was set up on that vehicle and when it entered the city on 9/3/2026, detectives responded to the area where the repeated vandalism had occurred. Within minutes, the suspect vehicle and suspect arrived at the location, where they were arrested and charged.

August 2026

The Warrant Unit apprehended a male suspect wanted for a Stabbing. During the course of this investigation and arrest, it was learned that the suspect’s vehicle was also wanted in another jurisdiction in relation to a Rape Investigation. The motor vehicle was subsequently seized, and a Search Warrant was executed by the outside jurisdiction.

May 2026

While reviewing video of a fatal hit and run, it was learned that one vehicle matching the offending vehicle description had passed by a FLOCK camera within minutes of the fatal car accident. It was then determined that the same vehicle had also hit that same FLOCK camera 5 minutes prior in the same direction, which led Detectives to investigate why a vehicle would be circling the area. It was later discovered that the operator was allegedly responsible for the fatal hit and run.

December 2025

After a 70-year-old woman was attacked in a parking lot after a road rage incident, a brief description of the suspect and vehicle were given. FLOCK was utilized to identify the vehicle and then also to locate the offender and place them under arrest at a later date.

October 2025

Fatal Hit and Run of pedestrian on Chelmsford Street. In this case, Detectives were able to view the vehicle that struck and killed a pedestrian but had difficulty determining the exact model and plate of the vehicle. By utilizing nearby FLOCK cameras, Detectives were able to identify the vehicle, determine the owner/operator, and then charge them accordingly.

October 2025

After a male in an unknown vehicle threatened employees of a business in Lowell with a firearm, FLOCK cameras were used to input a description of the vehicle used. After investigation, the vehicle and the male were identified and the male was charged with multiple felonies.

June 2024

An Indecent A&B occurred in the Highlands neighborhood. Detectives were able to use FLOCK to establish the suspect was in the area at the time of the incident. This information helped solidify the probable cause for an arrest warrant for the suspect.

March 2022

An Armed Home Invasion, Unlawful Discharge of a Firearm and Stabbing occurred on Aiken Ave. A female suspect was identified, and a male suspect was being sought for identification. Detectives received a plate and vehicle description of the getaway vehicle. Utilizing FLOCK, the Detectives were able to build an identification and probable cause for the male suspect which lead to the arrest of the male suspect.
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

37

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

37

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

440,460

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

472

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Lowell MA PD data.

[Federal] US Postal Inspection Service
Acushnet MA PD
Attleboro MA PD
Auburn MA PD
Barnstable MA PD
Barre MA PD
Beverly MA PD
Billerica MA PD
Blackstone MA PD
Braintree MA PD
Bridgewater MA PD
Bristol Community College MA PD
Burrillville RI PD
Canton MA PD
Charlton MA PD
Chelmsford MA PD
Chelsea MA PD
City of Lowell MA
Cohasset MA PD
Cranston RI PD
Cumberland RI PD
Dennis MA PD
Douglas MA PD
Dracut MA PD
East Bridgewater MA PD
East Providence RI PD
Easthampton MA PD
Easton MA PD
Essex County MA SO
Everett MA PD
Fairhaven MA PD
Fall River MA PD
Framingham MA PD
Franklin MA PD
Grafton MA PD
Groton MA PD
Hadley MA PD
Hampden County MA SO
Hanson MA PD
Haverhill MA PD
Hillsborough County NH SO
Hingham MA PD
Holbrook MA PD
Holyoke MA PD
Hopkinton MA PD
Hudson NH PD
Ipswich MA PD
Lakeville MA PD
Lawrence MA PD
Litchfield NH PD
Ludlow MA PD
Lynn MA PD
Lynnfield MA PD
Malden MA PD
Manchester NH PD
Marblehead MA PD
Marlborough MA PD
Massachusetts Department of Correction
Massachusetts State MA PD
Mattapoisett MA PD
Medway MA PD
Melrose MA PD
Methuen MA PD
Middleboro MA PD
Milford MA PD
Milton MA PD
Nahant MA PD
Nantucket MA PD
Nashua NH PD
New Bedford MA PD
New Canaan CT PD
New Hampshire State Police
North Attleboro MA PD
Norwell MA PD
Norwood MA PD
Peabody MA PD
Pelham NH PD
Pembroke MA PD
Plainville MA PD
Portsmouth NH PD
Poughkeepsie City NY PD
Quincy MA PD
Randolph MA PD
Raynham MA PD
Revere MA PD
Salem MA PD
Saugus MA PD
Seekonk MA PD
SEMRECC MA
Sharon MA PD
Somerset MA PD
South Hadley MA PD
Springfield MA PD
Taunton MA PD
Tewksbury MA PD
Tiverton RI PD
Town of Groton CT PD
Vernon CT PD
Wakefield MA PD
Waltham MA PD
Wareham MA PD
Warwick RI PD
Watertown MA PD
Webster MA PD
West Springfield MA PD
Weston MA PD
Westport MA PD
Westwood MA PD
Wethersfield CT PD
Wilmington MA PD
Winthrop MA PD
Woburn MA PD
Woonsocket RI PD
York ME PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Lowell MA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, reproductive care, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety