Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Green Bay WI PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

The Green Bay Police Department (GBPD) is using Flock Automatic License Plate Readers (ALPRs) to help detect and reduce crime in our community. Flock ALPRs are stationary ALPR cameras located within Municipal - Right of Ways and are self-sufficient. They are powered by solar panels and send image information through government-standard encrypted cell signals. The ALPRs capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. The GBPD utilizes retroactive searches to solve crimes after they have occurred. These cameras are not used for traffic enforcement. Additionally, GBPD utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals and missing endangered children and adults. To ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, the GBPD has our policies and usage statistics available to the public here on the GBPD website at www.gbpolice.org under Inside GBPD.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

46

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

460,015

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

472

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert, Wisconsin DOJ

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

9,634

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Green Bay WI PD data.

Brown County WI SO
De Pere WI PD
University of Wisconsin - Green Bay WI PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Green Bay WI PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
More Info

ALPR and Police Policies Access:

https://www.greenbaywi.gov/1223/Policy-Manual

Provided by Flock Safety