Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Columbia Heights MN PD [Inactive]
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 04 2026

Overview

Columbia Heights MN PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Columbia Heights MN PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Columbia Heights MN PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

5

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

0

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

Data Unavailable

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Columbia Heights MN PD [Inactive] data.

Columbia Heights MN PD [Inactive] is not sharing data with any partner networks.
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Columbia Heights MN PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety