Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Stanwood WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Sep 12 2026

Overview

Stanwood WA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Stanwood WA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Stanwood WA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

13

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

98,542

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

76

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Stanwood WA PD data.

Arlington PD (WA)
Everett (WA) Police Department
Granite Falls WA PD
Lake Stevens WA PD
Lynnwood WA PD [Inactive]
Marysville WA PD
Mill Creek WA PD
Monroe WA PD
Mountlake Terrace WA PD
Mukilteo WA PD
Snohomish County WA SO
Snohomish WA PD
Sultan WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)

Receiving Network Data From

Organizations sharing their data with Stanwood WA PD.

Aberdeen WA PD
Adams County WA SO
Arlington PD (WA)
Centralia WA PD
Chehalis WA PD
Chelan County WA SO
Cle Elum WA PD
College Place WA PD
Columbia River Drug Task Force WA
Des Moines WA PD
Eatonville WA PD [Inactive]
Ellensburg WA PD
Everett (WA) Police Department
Federal Way WA PD
Grandview WA PD
Granite Falls WA PD
Grant County WA SO
Grays Harbor County SO (WA)
Kent WA PD
Kittitas WA PD
Lake Stevens WA PD
Lakewood WA PD
Liberty Lake WA PD
Mabton WA PD
Marysville WA PD
Montesano WA PD
Moses Lake WA PD
Moxee WA PD
Mukilteo WA PD
Napavine WA PD
Newcastle WA PD
Olympia WA PD
Orting WA PD
Prosser WA PD
Puyallup WA PD
Reardan WA PD
Sedro-Woolley WA PD
Selah WA PD
Snohomish County WA SO
Sumner WA PD
Toppenish WA PD
Town of Harrah WA
Tukwila WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)
Union Gap WA PD
Wapato WA PD
Warden WA PD
West Richland WA PD
Yakima County WA SO
Yakima WA PD
Yelm WA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License plate, Vehicles, Bicycles, and Trailers

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

In support of the Stanwood Police Department's Mission, Vision, and Values, ACCESS-certified law enforcement personnel may use Flock Safety Cameras for investigating felony and gross misdemeanor crimes or investigating community safety concerns. This includes, but is not limited to:
• Locating missing children, elderly individuals, and other vulnerable/endangered persons, including those associated with AMBER, Silver, and Missing Indigenous Person Alerts.
• Locating vehicles that are stolen, wanted, or subject of a criminal investigation.
• Locating witnesses and victims of violent crimes.
• Purposes related to training Flock Safety Camera users.
• Supporting local, state, federal, and tribal community safety departments in the identification of vehicles and/or persons associated with criminal investigations, including investigations of serial crimes.
Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Stanwood Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

• All employees of the Stanwood Police Department, including commissioned deputies and civilian personnel, shall abide by the policies and procedures related to ALPR cameras as set forth in the Standard Operating Procedure Manual.

• Stanwood Police Department employees are prohibited from using Flock Safety Camera technology in the following circumstances:
- - Employees may not use Flock Safety Cameras for non-work-related purposes or otherwise operate the Flock Safety Cameras outside their legitimate law enforcement duties.
- - Flock Safety Cameras may be used to collect data that is within public view but will not be used for the sole purpose of monitoring or tracking individuals or expressive activities protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.
- - Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used solely for the purpose of immigration enforcement.
- - Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to investigate or issue infractions.
- - In no case shall the Stanwood Police Department Flock Safety Cameras be used for any purpose other than legitimate law enforcement or community safety purposes.
- - Users will not target any person based on their actual or perceived age, color, creed, criminal history, disability, ethnic background, gender, gender expression or identity, lifestyle, marital status, national origin, partnership status, political affiliation or beliefs, pregnancy status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation as defined by RCW 49.60.040, social or economic status, veteran status, and, to the extent permitted by law, alienage or citizenship status, or any other legally protected status.
- - Without another clearly articulated nexus to criminal activity associated with Washington State law, Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to specifically target or track the movement of vehicles traveling to or from healthcare facilities, including, but not limited to hospitals, clinics, mental health providers, or reproductive health care centers. This restriction applies irrespective of the vehicle’s origin, destination, or the medical services sought by the individual.

• Flock Safety Camera use is prohibited on the premises or immediate surroundings of schools, places of worship, courts, or food banks.

• Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, personal use, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion).

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

More Info

Stanwood Police Department/Snohomish County Sheriff's ALPR Policy

https://snohomishcountywa.gov/342/Sheriff-Public-Records#docaccess-431e49d7e11d4ee957fcf6cc202bcd2e

Provided by Flock Safety