Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Everett (WA) Police Department
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Wed Jun 24 2026

OVERVIEW

The Everett Police Department (EPD) authorizes the use of two types of Flock Safety cameras for law enforcement and community safety purposes. These devices gather and analyze the data to enable the rapid identification and location of vehicles and persons of legitimate interest to law enforcement.


The Everett Police Department is committed to utilizing Flock Safety cameras to enhance community safety, deter and solve crimes, maintain public trust, and support the overall mission of the department.


The Everett Police Department employs the use of two types of Flock Safety cameras, the Flock Safety Falcon, a license plate reader (LPR), and the Flock Safety Condor, a fixed-point pan-tilt-zoom (PTZ) camera.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles, Bicycles, Trailers

What the Cameras Do Not Do

The cameras and software do not support facial recognition. The software does not allow inquiries on gender or race.

External Law Enforcement Access

Any Law Enforcement agency that asks to access data from Everett PD's Flock program must abide by Everett PD's policies on usage. All agencies are required to sign documentation that they acknowledge to abide by this agreement.

Hotlist Policy

To the extent possible, vehicle and subject information associated with LPR hits will be verified through separate law enforcement information sources to confirm the information is accurate, up to date, and supports any related contact with the public. Users of LPR data must, to the extent possible, visually confirm that the plate characters generated by the LPR readers correspond with the digital image of the license plate in question and query the plate through WACIC/NCIC to ensure the LPR user is relying on accurate information.
USAGE

Data Retention (In Days)

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Number of Owned Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

81

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles Detected in the Last 30 Days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

684,609

Hotlist Hits in the Last 30 Days

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

4,239

Searches in the Last 30 Days

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

264

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Everett (WA) Police Department data.

Arlington PD (WA)
Lake Stevens WA PD
Marysville WA PD
Snohomish County WA SO
Snohomish WA PD
Stanwood WA PD
Sultan WA PD

Funding for Everett PD's Flock Program

Funding for this program was provided through the Washington Auto Theft Prevention Authority and the Department of Justice's Project Safe Neighborhoods program.
https://waautotheftpreventionauthority.org/
https://www.justice.gov/psn
ADDITIONAL INFO

Prohibited Uses

All employees of the Everett Police Department, including commissioned officers and civilian personnel, shall abide by the policies and procedures related to Flock Safety Cameras as set forth in this policy. Employees of the police department are prohibited from using Flock Safety Camera technology in the following circumstances:

Employees may not use Flock Safety Cameras for non-work-related purposes or otherwise operate the Flock Safety Cameras outside their legitimate law enforcement duties.

Flock Safety Cameras may be used to collect data that is within public view but will not be used for the sole purpose of monitoring individual or expressive activities protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.

Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used solely for the purpose of immigration enforcement.

Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to investigate or issue infractions.

In no case shall the Everett Police Department's Flock Safety Cameras be used for any purpose other than legitimate law enforcement or community safety purposes.

The use of Flock Safety cameras should avoid any conflicts of interest as prescribed in EPD Policy 4.50.

Users will not target any person based on their actual or perceived age, color, creed, criminal history, disability, ethnic background, gender, gender expression or identity, lifestyle, marital status, national origin, partnership status, political affiliation or beliefs, pregnancy status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation as defined by RCW 49.60.040, social or economic status, veteran status, and, to the extent permitted by law, alienage or citizenship status, or any other legally protected status.

Without another clearly articulated nexus to criminal activity associated with Washington State law, Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to specifically target or track the movement of vehicles traveling to or from healthcare facilities, including, but not limited to hospitals, clinics, mental health providers, or reproductive health care centers. This restriction applies irrespective of the vehicle's origin, destination, or the medical services sought by the individuals.

Acceptable Use Policy

In support of the mission of the Everett Police Department, law enforcement personnel, who are ACCESS certified, may use Flock Safety Cameras for conducting criminal investigations or investigating community safety concerns. This includes, but is not limited to:

Locating missing children and elderly individuals or others that are vulnerable/endangered, including those associated with AMBER, Silver, and Missing Indigenous Person Alerts.

Locating vehicles that are stolen, wanted, or subject of a criminal investigation.

Locating witnesses and victims of violent crimes.

Operating PTZ cameras in real-time for active monitoring or adjusting to focus on specific areas of interest if there is specific information that a reasonable officer construes as a threat to community safety or a lifesaving effort.

Purposes related to training Flock Safety Camera users.
Supporting local, state, federal, and tribal community safety departments in the identification of vehicles and/or persons associated with criminal investigations, including investigations of serial crimes.

Utilizing PTZ Cameras to observe public locations during a critical incident to improve situational awareness for responding officers.


Link to Everett PD's Full Flock Policy

https://www.everettwa.gov/Police

Provided by Flock Safety