Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock.com
Medina WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Jul 30 2026

Overview

Medina WA PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Medina WA PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Medina WA PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

23

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

57,513

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

6

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert, Washington Crime Information Center (WACIC)

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

28

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Medina WA PD data.

Medina WA PD is not sharing data with any partner networks.

Receiving Network Data From

Organizations sharing their data with Medina WA PD.

Kent WA PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is exclusively owned by the Medina Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harrassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

A positive match by an LPR system does not constitute reasonable suspicion to conduct a traffic stop on the vehicle. The officer must develop their own independent reasonable suspicion or personally verify that the license plate affixed to the vehicle matches the license plate show in the LPR system image. Finally, the officer must confirm that the license plate affixed to the vehicle is currently listed in an approved database.
More Info

Full Transparency Portal

See Medina Police Department Policy 460

Provided by Flock Safety