Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Darien CT PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Oct 06 2026

Overview

The Darien Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Darien CT PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Darien CT PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

13

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

236,678

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

71

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

175
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Darien CT PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, reproductive health care, gender-affirming health services, or any health care services that are legal in the State of Connecticut, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and the audit of searches is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
More Info

LPR Deployment Overview

Darien CT PD currently operates multiple License Plate Reader (LPR) cameras. Multiple of these are stationary and installed in fixed locations, while one is a mobile (flex) unit that is deployed temporarily for events or specific public safety needs.

DPD General Order 5.34 Automated License Plate Readers

General Order link: https://public.powerdms.com/DARIENCT/tree/documents/1615436

Provided by Flock Safety