Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Richland WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Jun 27 2026

OVERVIEW

The Richland Police Department, along with hundreds of other agencies across the country, is using Flock Automatic License Plate Readers (ALPRs) to help detect and reduce crime in our community. Flock ALPRs are stationary ALPR cameras located within municipal rights-of-way. They are powered by solar panels and send image information through government-standard encrypted cell signals to a secure third-party database. The ALPRs capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. The Richland Police Department utilizes retroactive (after-the-fact) searches of the Flock camera data to solve crimes. Additionally, the Richland Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals and missing endangered children and adults. Access to the information captured by the City's Flock camera system is limited to a law enforcement-related "need-to-know" basis.

POLICIES

What's Detected

Rear license plates, rear of vehicle

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, people, gender, race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the City of Richland WA PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Traffic enforcement, immigration enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), or personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely and only by authorized law enforcement personnel.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits (i.e., stolen vehicles, missing persons, etc.) are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

10

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

0

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

Data Unavailable
ADDITIONAL INFO

Link to Richland Police Department's Lexipol Policy

https://www.richlandwa.gov/departments/police-department/services-transparency/policies

Provided by Flock Safety