Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Mount Vernon OH PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Tue Aug 25 2026

Overview

Mount Vernon OH PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Mount Vernon OH PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Mount Vernon OH PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

8

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

149,799

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

32

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

559
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, Electronic data, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Mount Vernon OH PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

Only authorized department personnel who have completed mandatory Criminal Justice Information Services Law Enforcement Automated Data System (CJIS LEADS) compliance training and system certification can access the database. All system access requires a valid reason.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to posting or other action.
More Info

Mount Vernon Police Department Policy

Mount Vernon Police Department Policy
428 Policy Manual

Automated License Plate Readers (ALPR)

428.1 PURPOSE AND SCOPE
Automated License Plate Reader (ALPR) technology, also known as License Plate Recognition, provides automated detection of license plates. ALPRs are used by the Mount Vernon Police Department to convert data associated with vehicle license plates for official law enforcement purposes, including identifying stolen or wanted vehicles, stolen license plates and missing persons. The ALPR may also be used to gather information related to active warrants, homeland security, electronic surveillance, suspect interdiction and stolen property recovery.

428.2 ADMINISTRATION OF ALPR DATA
All installation and maintenance of ALPR equipment, as well as ALPR data retention and access, shall be managed by the Administration Division Supervisor. The Administration Division Supervisor will assign personnel under his/her command to administer the day-to-day operation of the ALPR equipment and data.

428.3 ALPR OPERATION
Use of an ALPR is restricted to the purposes outlined below. Department personnel shall not use, or allow others to use, the equipment or database records for any unauthorized purpose.

(a) An ALPR shall only be used for official and legitimate law enforcement business.

(b) An ALPR may be used in conjunction with any patrol operation or official Department investigation. Reasonable suspicion or probable cause is not necessary before using ALPR.

(c) While an ALPR may be used to canvass license plates around any crime scene, particular consideration should be given to using ALPR-equipped cars to canvass areas around homicides, shootings and other major incidents. Partial license plates reported during major crimes should be entered into the ALPR system in an attempt to identify suspect vehicles.

(d) No member of this department shall operate ALPR equipment or access ALPR data without first completing department-approved training.

(e) If practicable, the patrolman should verify an ALPR response through LEADS before taking enforcement action that is based solely upon an ALPR alert.

(f) No ALPR operator may access Ohio Law Enforcement Automated Data System (LEADS) data unless otherwise authorized to do so.

(g) ALPR notification access may be granted to outside agencies by the Chief of Police or designee.

(h) To adhere to reporting and retention requirements, ALPR search access will be governed as follows: Every conducted search and custom "Hotlist" must be linked to a Call-for Service (CFS) number or report number, which will include the reason for the search. Furthermore, ALPR searches by our department users for non-agency personnel will exclusively be conducted by designated agency personnel. All searches carried out by authorized personnel for non-agency individuals will include the case number and purpose for the requested action.

(i) For ongoing or active incidents, officers may enter "ai" for "Active Incident" in the "reason for search field" or the "case number" field when initiating a search or hotlist. The time of the ALPR search can be used at a later time if needed for cross reference with the corresponding CFS or case number based on the time of the event. To ensure officer safety and operational efficiency, this process will streamline the tracking of search requests while maintaining accountability. Officers will be able to quickly search current events, reducing delays in accessing critical information during high-pressure situations. Officers must still request that dispatch create a CFS and provide a reason for the CFS.

428.4 ALPR DATA COLLECTION AND RETENTION
All data and images gathered by an ALPR are for the official use of the Mount Vernon Police Department. Because such data may contain confidential information LEADS data is not open to public review. ALPR information gathered and retained by this department may be used and shared with prosecutors or others only as permitted by law and this policy.

The Administration Division Supervisor is responsible to ensure proper collection and retention of ALPR data and for transferring ALPR data stored in department vehicles to the department server on a regular basis, not to exceed 30 days between transfers.

All ALPR data downloaded to the server should be stored for the minimum period established in the Department Records Retention Schedule identified in the Records Maintenance and Release Policy. Thereafter, ALPR data may be purged unless it has become, or it is reasonable to believe it will become, evidence in a criminal or civil action or is subject to a lawful action to produce records. In those circumstances the applicable data should be downloaded from the server onto portable media and booked into evidence.

428.5 ACCOUNTABILITY AND SAFEGUARDS
All saved data will be closely safeguarded and protected by both procedural and technological means. The Mount Vernon Police Department will observe the following safeguards regarding access to and use of stored data:

(a) All non-law enforcement requests for access to stored ALPR data shall be referred to the Records Clerk and processed in accordance with applicable law.

(b) All ALPR data downloaded to the mobile workstation and server shall be accessible only through a login/password-protected system capable of documenting all access of information by name, date and time.

(c) Persons approved to access ALPR data under these guidelines are permitted to access the data for legitimate law enforcement purposes only, such as when the data relate to a specific criminal investigation or department-related civil or administrative action.

(d) Such ALPR data may be released to other authorized and verified law enforcement officials and agencies at any time for legitimate law enforcement purposes in accordance with this policy.

(e) ALPR system audits should be conducted on a regular basis.

Published with permission by Mount Vernon Police Department

Provided by Flock Safety