Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Skamania CO WA SO [Inactive]
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Jun 26 2026

OVERVIEW

Skamania CO WA SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Skamania CO WA SO utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Skamania CO WA SO utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned if downloaded by Skamania CO WA SO and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

7 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

0

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

0

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

Data Unavailable

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
ADDITIONAL INFO

Recent Success Story

FLOCK SAFETY CAMERA POLICY

The Skamania County Sheriff's Office authorizes the use of FLOCK SAFETY cameras for law
enforcement and community safety purposes. These devices gather and analyze the data to
enable the rapid identification and location of vehicles and persons of legitimate interest to law
enforcement. The FLOCK SAFETY camera used by the Skamania County Sheriff's Office to
convert data associated with vehicle license plates for official law enforcement purposes, including
identifying stolen or wanted vehicles, stolen license plates, Amber Alerts, Silver Alerts, and
Missing/Endangered Persons.

The purpose of this policy is to establish guidelines for the use, management, and operation
of FLOCK SAFETY cameras by the Skamania County Sheriff's Office. The Skamania County
Sheriff's Office is committed to utilizing FLOCK SAFETY cameras to enhance community safety,
deter and solve crimes, maintain public trust, and support the overall mission of the Skamania
County Sheriff's Office.

Provided by Flock Safety