Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Marysville WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sun Jun 28 2026

OVERVIEW

The Marysville Police Department uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising individual privacy. The Marysville Police Department uses retroactive searches to help generate case leads and solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, the Marysville Police Department utilizes real-time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals who travel through our city to commit other crimes. To ensure proper usage and establish proper guardrails for the program, we have made the policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, people, gender, race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the Marysville Police Department and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), or personal use.

System Access History

Flock data is only retained for 30 days. However, an audit trail of the users who accessed the system is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits (i.e., stolen vehicles, missing persons, etc.) are required to be human verified prior to action.

Networking Sharing

Marysville Police Department only shares with local and state law enforcement agencies within the State of Washington.

Flock's Privacy and Ethics

https://www.flocksafety.com/privacy-ethics
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Number of Marysville PD Owned Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

31

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Vehicles detected in the Last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

402,343

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

900
ADDITIONAL INFO

Full Automated License Plate Reader Policy Accessibility

The City of Marysville Police Department takes community trust seriously. We have made all of our policies available online for inspection. To see the MPD policy that governs Automated License Plate Readers, see here: https://public.powerdms.com/MarysvillePD/tree/documents/3026517

Provided by Flock Safety