Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
More Info
Visit Flock
Lynnwood WA PD [Inactive]
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Thu Aug 06 2026

Overview

The Lynnwood Police Department (LPD) authorizes the usage of ALPR technology as a tool to capture objective evidence while upholding personal privacy rights. ALPR fixed technology devices through FLOCK safety gathers and analyses the data to enable rapid identification and location of vehicles of legitimate interest to law enforcement. The Lynnwood Police Department is committed to utilizing Flock Safety cameras to enhance community safety, deter and solve crimes, maintain public trust, and support the overall mission of the department. The Lynnwood Police Department employs the Flock Safety Falcon, a license plate reader (LPR).

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

7 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

0

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

0

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

0

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

Data Unavailable
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License plates, Vehicles, Bicycles, Trailers

What's Not Detected

The cameras and software do not support facial recognition. The software does not allow inquiries on gender or race.

Prohibited Uses

All employees of the Lynnwood Police Department, including commissioned officers and civilian personnel, shall abide by the policies and procedures related to Flock Safety Cameras as set forth in this policy. Employees of the police department are prohibited from using Flock Safety Camera technology in the following circumstances:

Employees may not use Flock Safety Cameras for non-work-related purposes or otherwise operate the Flock Safety Cameras outside their legitimate law enforcement duties.

Flock Safety Cameras may be used to collect data that is within public view but will not be used for the sole purpose of monitoring individual or expressive activities protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution.

Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used solely for the purpose of immigration enforcement.

Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to investigate or issue infractions.

In no case shall the Lynnwood Police Department's Flock Safety Cameras be used for any purpose other than legitimate law enforcement or community safety purposes.

Users will not target any person based on their actual or perceived age, color, creed, criminal history, disability, ethnic background, gender, gender expression or identity, lifestyle, marital status, national origin, partnership status, political affiliation or beliefs, pregnancy status, race, religion, sex, sexual orientation as defined by RCW 49.60.040, social or economic status, veteran status, and, to the extent permitted by law, alienage or citizenship status, or any other legally protected status.

Without another clearly articulated nexus to criminal activity associated with Washington State law, Flock Safety Cameras shall not be used to specifically target or track the movement of vehicles traveling to or from healthcare facilities, including, but not limited to hospitals, clinics, mental health providers, or reproductive health care centers. This restriction applies irrespective of the vehicle's origin, destination, or the medical services sought by the individuals.


Hotlist Policy

To the extent possible, vehicle and subject information associated with LPR hits will be verified through separate law enforcement information sources to confirm the information is accurate, up to date, and supports any related contact with the public. Users of LPR data must, to the extent possible, visually confirm that the plate characters generated by the LPR readers correspond with the digital image of the license plate in question and query the plate through WACIC/NCIC to ensure the LPR user is relying on accurate information.
More Info

LPD Policy Manual:

https://www.lynnwoodwa.gov/Government/Departments/Police-Department

Funding for Lynnwood PD's Flock Program

Funding for this program was provided in part through the Washington Auto Theft
Prevention Authority.

https://waautotheftpreventionauthority.org/

Provided by Flock Safety