Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Snohomish County WA SO
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Jun 26 2026

OVERVIEW

Snohomish County WA SO uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Snohomish County WA SO utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Snohomish County WA SO utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Snohomish County WA SO and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.
USAGE

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

8

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Snohomish County WA SO data.

Arlington PD (WA)
Everett (WA) Police Department
Granite Falls WA PD
Lynnwood WA PD [Inactive]
Marysville WA PD
Mill Creek WA PD
Monroe WA PD
Mountlake Terrace WA PD
Stanwood WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCMEC Amber Alert

Unique Vehicles Detected

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

343,111

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

446

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

341

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
ADDITIONAL INFO

Recent Success Story

Additional Info

Provided by Flock Safety