Transparency Portal
Visit Flock
Kent WA PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Sat Jun 27 2026

OVERVIEW

The Kent Police Department uses Flock Safety ALPR cameras to locate missing or endangered persons (such as those associated with AMBER or Silver Alerts), to locate wanted suspects involved in felony crimes, to locate stolen vehicles or vehicles with stolen license plates, to identify vehicles believed to have been involved in crimes which are being investigated by Kent Police officers, and to canvass crime scenes for vehicles that may have been used by suspects to drive to or flee the scene.

POLICIES

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by the Kent Police Department and is never sold to third parties.

Prohibited Uses

Civil immigration enforcement; automated traffic infraction ticketing; personal use; non-law enforcement purposes; harassment or intimidation; discrimination; usage based solely on a protected class (such as race, sex, or religion).

Access Policy

The system may only be accessed by Kent Police officers who have been trained in its use, for official and legitimate law enforcement purposes, and for a valid reason associated with an official case report or investigation.

Hotlist Policy

All "hotlist" hits are required to be verified by an officer prior to any law enforcement action being taken.
USAGE

Hotlists Alerted On

Missing Persons; AMBER Alerts; Felony Warrants; Stolen Vehicles; Stolen Plates

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

21 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

19

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Kent WA PD data.

Auburn WA PD
Cle Elum WA PD
College Place WA PD
Covington WA PD
Des Moines WA PD
East Wenatchee WA PD
Enumclaw WA PD
Grays Harbor County SO (WA)
Mill Creek WA PD
Port of Seattle WA PD
Renton WA PD
Sedro-Woolley WA PD
Tukwila WA PD
Tulalip Tribal Police Dept. (WA)

Vehicles detected in the last 30 days

Number of unique plate reads over the last 30 days.

625,139

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

195

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

242

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV

Provided by Flock Safety