Transparency Portal
Community Impact
Policy & Trust
Visit Flock
Winston OR PD
Transparency Portal

Last updated: Fri Aug 07 2026

Overview

Winston OR PD uses Flock Safety technology to capture objective evidence without compromising on individual privacy. Winston OR PD utilizes retroactive search to solve crimes after they've occurred. Additionally, Winston OR PD utilizes real time alerting of hotlist vehicles to capture wanted criminals. In an effort to ensure proper usage and guardrails are in place, they have made the below policies and usage statistics available to the public.

Community Impact
Data & Usage Summary

Data Retention

The number of days data is retained.

30 days

Total Cameras

Number of LPR and other cameras.

5

LPR Cameras

Number of LPR cameras only.

5

Number of Searches

Total user search sessions over the last 30 days.

28

Hotlists Alerted On

National and statewide hotlist sources.

NCIC, NCMEC Amber Alert

Number of Hotlist Hits

Total hotlist hits over the last 30 days.

29
Top Offense Types

Offense Types used for LPR searches in the last 30 days.

Drugs/Narcotics
Hit and Run/Car Accident
Obstructing the Police (Fleeing/Eluding)
Assault/Battery Offenses
Larceny/Theft Offenses

Sharing Network Data With

Organizations granted access to Winston OR PD data.

Cow Creek OR Tribal Police
Douglas County OR SO
Eagle Point OR PD
Florence OR PD
Gilliam County OR SO
Grants Pass OR PD
Jackson County OR SO
Klamath Falls OR PD
Lane County OR SO
Lincoln City OR PD
Medford OR PD
Myrtle Creek OR PD
North Bend OR PD
OR - Ashland PD
OR - Josephine County SO
Roseburg OR PD
South Coast Interagency Narcotics OR
Springfield OR PD
Sunriver OR PD
Sutherlin OR PD
Tigard OR PD
Umatilla OR PD
Washington County OR - SO

Receiving Network Data From

Organizations sharing their data with Winston OR PD.

Cow Creek OR Tribal Police
Douglas County OR SO
Eagle Point OR PD
Florence OR PD
Grants Pass OR PD
Jackson County OR SO
Klamath Falls OR PD
Lincoln City OR PD
Medford OR PD
Myrtle Creek OR PD
OR - Central Point PD
OR - Josephine County SO
Roseburg OR PD
Sutherlin OR PD
Policy & Trust

What's Detected

License Plates, Vehicles

What's Not Detected

Facial recognition, People, Gender, Race

Acceptable Use Policy

Data is used for law enforcement purposes only. Data is owned by Winston OR PD and is never sold to 3rd parties.

Prohibited Uses

Immigration enforcement, traffic enforcement, harassment or intimidation, usage based solely on a protected class (i.e. race, sex, religion), Personal use.

Access Policy

All system access requires a valid reason and is stored indefinitely.

Hotlist Policy

Hotlist hits are required to be human verified prior to action.

Public Search Audit

Download to view searches performed over the last 30 days.

Download CSV
SOC 2 Type II

Independently audited controls covering security, availability, and confidentiality.

ISO 27001

Information security management aligned with international standards.

Adherence to Key Privacy Principles

Built to focus on data minimization, purpose limitation, and transparency.

Myth vs. Fact
Myth

Flock has been hacked.

Fact

Flock's cloud environment has never been breached. Flock invests in a strong security posture, including adhering to NDAA, SOC2 (Type II), ISO 27001, ISO 27018 FedRAMP 20x, and Higher Education Community Vendor Assessment Tool (HECVAT) compliance. Additional security precautions include Role-Based Access Controls, data encrypted at-rest and in transit, required Multi-Factor Authentication, and regular penetration testing.

Myth

Flock sells and/or shares customer data.

Fact

Your community owns 100% of your data and it will never be sold. Only your agency decides who to share your data with, not Flock. Flock Safety does not publicly release agency search data. Flock does not operate or support any public-facing searchable database of law enforcement lookups, and we do not provide license plate search histories to websites or third parties without the agency's knowledge and authorization. Other agencies who you share footage with have been responding to FOIA requests and sharing this search data.

Myth

My data is fed into a national database.

Fact

Each agency controls access to its own data. Agencies may choose to share information through a broader network, but nothing is shared automatically. Participation is opt-in, governed by defined agreements, and limited to lawful investigative purposes.

Myth

Flock cameras use facial recognition.

Fact

Flock cameras do not use facial recognition technology. Searches are based on vehicle characteristics, and not identity. Flock cannot recognize, identify, or track individuals. It is purpose built for specific public safety investigations, not to monitor people.

Provided by Flock Safety